Add ServiceValidationError and translation support (#1961)
home-assistant/developers.home-assistant: blog/2023-10-29-service-exceptions-and-translations.md

> ---

Reviewer: Should we change the date of the blog in the filename to today's date? It's a bit old now.

Author: Good point, I'll do that

author: Jan Bouwhuis
authorURL: https://github.com/jbouwh
authorImageURL: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/7188918?s=96&v=4
title: Exception handling during and translation support
---

## Exception handling during service calls

> When an exception is raised during a service call and the printing of stack traces is not warranted, then this can cause that the logs are being spammed. This happens when validation violations cause a service call to fail and we can print a clear error message but do not need a stack trace to make thing clear.

Reviewer: Please start with describing the current situation, then describe how we want to change the situation and finally  describe the new feature that will allow the change in behavior.

Short example:
Currently service calls that raise exceptions will log full stack traces. Service calls that fail due to invalid user input don't need a stack trace but would benefit from a helpful error message in the users own language.

To be able to suppress the stack trace in these cases...

> To be able to suppress the stack trace in these cases, we introduce `ServiceValidationError` as a new exception type. The `ServiceValidationError` exception can be raised instead of `HomeAssistantError` during the execution of a service call. The error message is to be shown to through the UI, and in the logs. The stack trace is printed at debug level, to support development. For other exceptions that are raised from a service call (including  `HomeAssistantError`) nothing changes and a full stack trace will be printed. [Read more](/docs/core/platform/raising_exceptions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be able to suppress the stack trace in these cases, we introduce `ServiceValidationError` as a new exception type. The `ServiceValidationError` exception can be raised instead of `HomeAssistantError` during the execution of a service call. The error message will show in the UI, and in the logs. The stack trace is printed at debug level, to support development. For other exceptions that are raised from a service call (including  `HomeAssistantError`) nothing changes and a full stack trace is printed. [Read more](/docs/core/platform/raising_exceptions).
```

## Translation support for Exceptions

> The `HomeAssistantError` exception and its sub classes, including `ServiceValidationError`, now accept a translation key to allow localization. [Read more](/docs/internationalization/core/#exceptions). The translation key will be used in cases where the frontend receives information about the exception.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `HomeAssistantError` exception and its subclasses, including `ServiceValidationError`, now accept a translation key to allow localization. [Read more](/docs/internationalization/core/#exceptions). The translation key will be used in cases where the frontend receives information about the exception.
```

> When we know about the exception we raise for, and we are showing the error message through the UI, we now can add a translation key to `HomeAssistantError` and it's sub classes like the new `ServiceValidationError` Exception to allow localization. [Read more](/docs/internationalization/core/#exceptions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `HomeAssistantError` exception and it's sub classes, including `ServiceValidationError`, now accepts a translation key to allow localization. [Read more](/docs/internationalization/core/#exceptions). The translation key will be used in cases where the frontend receives information about the exception.
```
